I think we have AGI. I think we have
artificial general intelligence. We
really have. You you hear these 95% of
projects fail, but like you know, like
that's that's that's actually what you
want. I I think the LLM is a commodity.
People are not saying that, but it is a
commodity. Like you can get gas from
this gas station, you can get gas from
that gas station, it doesn't matter.
Just compare price. Is AI in a bubble?
There is an AI bubble. Okay, so then
Glean is also in the bubble. Everybody's
in the bubble. No, I would I would say
there is a bubble.
I I would say those three camps. Yeah,
there is a super intelligence quest
camp.
I would be very worried there. There's a
second the researchers doing the, you
know, that's definitely not in a bubble.
They're like the sober. Yeah, they're
they're super sober and nobody cares
about them. And then there's,
>> [laughter]
>> all right, and they're probably the ones
that are right, unfortunately. And then
there's the third camp which is us
trying to make this valuable. We're not
in a bubble in a sense that we're not
spending huge amounts of capital on what
we are doing.
Uh, we're just trying to get actual
economic value instead of these
organizations.
Two legendary builders, Ali, Arvind.
I'm so thrilled to get into this with
you because both of you have seen every
super cycle I've lived through,
internet,
mobile,
cloud,
data and AI.
Not just through the super cycles, but
also through the hype,
the trough of disillusionment,
and this time it's different.
Today, we're going to chop it up on the
state of AI.
You know, let's let's start with the
20,000 ft view. Take stock of where we
are.
AI, we've seen consumer AI,
billions of users. ChatGPT said the
guns went off 3 years ago. Cloud,
Perplexity, ChatGPT.
People use it in the room.
On the SMB and developer side, we've got
hundreds of millions of users with
Cursor and Codex and Cloud Code and and
and so on.
Enterprise on the other hand,
there's a lot of divide. It's hard to
see, a lot of fog of war.
On one side, you've got models that are
earning
math benchmarks and science benchmarks
and engineering benchmarks.
But on the other side, you've got the
MIT report that's saying 95% of AI
deployments don't work.
What's the reality?
Bridge that gap for us. Lay it out as
you see it, a view from the top. So, I
think first of all, I think we should we
we should know that people use AI in
their personal and work lives both. So,
there's not so much of a divide. Like
you know, everybody in your company is
probably using ChatGPT
um and Claude and and other tools uh on
a daily basis. Um the [clears throat]
uh
the the thing that I I feel uh you know,
is happening in enterprises
is you you hear these 95% of projects
fail, but like you know, like that's
that's that's actually what you want.
Like you you like when you are actually
experimenting with new technology, if if
if all of all of your projects are
failing, that means you didn't just not
trying enough, you know, at the moment.
So, so I think when when I read the
study like it was not a surprise for me.
Um you know, we're going to actually see
hopefully like you know, similar stats
next year, too uh because you want
everybody in the industry to be to be
really eager and experiment and actually
figure out like you know, how to mix how
how how to actually make you know, get
you know, get benefits from this
technology.
This would make you guys by default the
5% of AI that is working.
>> [laughter]
>> Which is uh one in 20.
Maybe maybe you go to the 5%.
What is what is a use case that is
working? And not just working like it's
like saving me time, but like it's
working and it's transforming my
company. Something that you can take to
the bank to to the CFO while while the
CFO will not listen, but the legal won't
shut it down. All right, well, I mean,
look, we're seeing a lot of use cases
that are working. Uh
it's just that you know, you you just
have to it's not just you can just
unleash the agent and it just works.
Uh it's an engineering art. Like if
you're going to have a company that's
going to be really differentiated like
like my company or your company or
anyone's company and you want to beat
the competition,
you can't just like you know, quickly
put something together and think that
you know, the your competition is not
going to do the same thing. So, that's
going to be you know, something that
needs evaluations. It needs something
that you know, you're going to
productionize. It's going to take
effort. You need a great team around it.
But we're seeing a lot of them. Like
I'll give you some examples.
Um Royal Bank of Canada uh
built agents with us that basically take
as soon as an earnings report comes out,
so equity research analyst, their job is
to put together these, you know, reports
that say like you know, this is a buy,
this is you know, hold and so on. Um the
agent goes, gets the earnings report,
gets all the previous earnings reports,
gets all the competitors' earnings
reports, gets everything that's going on
in the market, does the full analysis,
the news, everything, puts it all
together and it can get the equity
report out in 15 minutes from the
earnings call. Industry standard is 2
hours.
Of course, it's going to get
commoditized and others are going to do
that as well, but uh that's actually
really important use case that we're
seeing in finance.
Um so, that's like finance example in
finance, right? It's like and there's
lots of examples like this. Sifting
through hundreds of thousands of
documents, SEC reports, so on. That's
finance.
Um let's switch gears. Let's go to to
health care. Health care completely
different. In health care, we have a
you know, customer Merck
uh that in the life science space
created a model called Teddy. Teddy
stands for transformer enabled drug
discovery.
And um this is a transformer model kind
of just like large language models that
can predict the next word, but it
instead can figure out which genome is
missing if you remove a genome. So, it
really understands the gene regulatory
network and can really start telling you
what's happening with gene expression
and so on. So, this is really important
for drug discovery. It's the beginnings,
but this is going to actually help us do
things that we couldn't do before. Let's
pick retail also. So, I'm picking
different. Health care is one. I gave
you finance, right? The RBC one.
Um let's go to retail, 7-Eleven.
Agents that completely automate the
marketing stack. I actually think the
marketing stack is going to get
disrupted pretty heavily.
So, um
these agents um can basically prepare,
they can segment audience like this
segment wants to hear this and it can
prepare all the marketing material
that's like directly targeting you guys
and it can put the campaigns together
and do that.
7-Eleven was doing this before as well,
but
you know, this and we're seeing this at
Databricks as well. More and more is
being done by agents and being automated
so you can just do it faster and you can
segment more fine-grained because before
you had to create the content for the
groups, that was a heavy content
creation was something that was human
manual labor. Now, you can actually do
that much much more. You can have all
your web materials completely customized
for a target group. So, these are
examples where it is working. There are
also lots of examples where it's not
working. Even with Databricks, we're not
just the 5%, you know, we have some of
that 95%, too, but some examples where
it's where it's where we're seeing
success. Ali, follow up on that off
These are great examples. Thank you.
Maybe uh if you if you were to take it a
layer up, what is common across these
use cases or these organizations or
these CIOs that's making these use cases
work? Is there something that we can
pattern match?
Yeah, look, I I think the LLM is a
commodity.
People are not saying that, but it is a
commodity. Like and you know, when I
took took econ classes, commodity was
when it's interchangeable. Like you can
get gas from this gas station, you can
get gas from that gas station, it
doesn't matter. Just compare price. LLMs
have become that way. Like it doesn't
really matter. This one is better right
now, next week that one is better. You
can't even keep up anymore, right?
What's happening? So, they're a
commodity. So, it's not about that. It's
really comes down to your company,
what data does your company have that's
special that your competitors don't
have?
Can you leverage that and can you build
AI that really understands that data?
Cuz that's not a commodity. There's not
an AI out there that understands all
your business processes in your company,
your secret sauce, and your data. That's
not a commodity. In fact, that's closer
to the 95%. It really comes down to
that. Or if you have a complicated
process that just your company has, this
is how you deliver your product and
services in your company, and it's uh
you know, it's
that portion can be disrupted with AI
somehow. If you can do that, now you can
get ahead of your competition. But it
comes back to what makes your company
special. Unfortunately, a lot of
companies are just building uh commodity
stuff. Like you should not be building
that cuz it's a thing that every company
can do. It's not special to your company
or to to your that's that's I think the
problem in a lot of the industry. Uh
another problem in the industry is that
a lot of demo wear. It's really easy to
make cool demos with an AI
and you know, therefore we're seeing a
lot of cool demos, but that's all they
are. Yeah. Well, you know, something we
say around at Altimeter quite a bit is
your AI strategy starts with your data
strategy. Yeah. So, you got to get the
data house in order first. And you know,
there's a lot of reasons for for for use
cases that are, you know, we were
trying, were not working. Maybe give us
an example of the 95% of an AI bet that
either of you had at Databricks, at
Glean, that did not work out and why it
didn't work out.
It's actually an interesting thing you
know, with engineering today is you
build systems and and never never before
have you been in this mode where you
start with a great idea and doesn't seem
like good idea anymore like within 2
weeks, you know, because we see a new
development that happened. So, there are
we have like numerous failures in in
engineering
uh on that front like you know, for
example, some of our fine-tuning work,
building building models uh for specific
use case within our product like you
know, didn't didn't really pan out for
us. And ultimately, the choice was that
you know, we can go with uh already
uh built models whether they are small
open source models uh hosted on
Databricks or or one of the large you
know, foundation models. The but in
internally like you know, from a
corporate you know, use cases
perspective, actually like we you know,
we are also like in in many ways in this
mode where a lot of our work actually
like I would not say like fail, but it
actually takes much longer than you
know, to actually generate success. You
know, there are you know, we are
actually trying to automate a lot of our
business processes internally.
Um and um like for example like you
know, one thing that I want is uh in our
company, I want everybody to actually
know exactly what their top priority for
the week is, what they want to work on.
And and maybe, you know, we want an AI
agent actually first tell them what the
priority should be and we want it all to
all to be documented and we want a
system which actually then, you know,
rolls it all rolls it all up and I get a
view every week where I can actually
quickly see, you know, what are all the
different people working on in the
company and are they aligned is that
aligned with, you know, what I want them
to work on. And and this this is a
simple thing like, you know,
companies have always
tried to actually have this, you know,
as CEOs you always wanted and it's
always hard to make happen and we
thought that AI would simply just, like,
you know, magically do all of this work
because, you know, like it has all the
context and it has all the context
inside the company to make it happen but
I still don't have it. So so so things
do take time
to actually, you know, to Ali's point
like, you know, there is
AI is just one more tool that you have
in the toolkit. It does not
suddenly make building complex
enterprise systems, you know,
you know, like it doesn't make it like
that you can, you know, build it up like
in in in one day. Doesn't it?
>> Yeah.
You know, the last time enterprises got
this excited about a tool was called
RPA. Mhm. And we know how that ended. It
unfortunately fizzled out and, you know,
somebody in the audience yesterday is
like, "Hey, how is this time
different from RPA?" It seems like
the same movie, bigger budgets, better
actors.
What's different this time? How how is
the nature of the architecture of the
technology different from the previous
automation cycle? Either of you. Yeah,
well, I mean I I first of all, RPA like
it didn't take, you know, it didn't
capture my attention at all. So I have
no I actually can't, you know,
>> [laughter]
>> So so so I think I
I think like I I would not compare these
two technologies at all. Like, you know,
you know, what we what we're seeing now
with AI is so fundamental, you know,
it's it's, you know, it's it's the
uh you know, when when we saw it first
it was basically magic.
And and we couldn't believe that this is
a machine
that is doing this work. Machines just
simply cannot do these kind of things,
you know, that we saw them do. Like
writing on their own, um having emotion,
understanding emotion.
Um so it's a um
it's you know, it's it's fundamental,
it's different and and the
Um
>> [clears throat]
>> and and that's why like, you know, I
don't think, you know, we this this
this technology is going to fizzle out.
Um and it it's not like, you know, you
don't have to be like a financial expert
or, you know, you know, like sort of a
deep thinker on business. This is this
is obvious stuff. Like, you know, all of
us know, all of us feel it. All of all
of us can see the capability of this
technology and we know it's special and
it's going to be it's going to be
around.
Yeah. You want to hear my RPA? Please.
You know, I mean it was rule-based
and the problem with it, especially if
you're, you know, you're you want
something that automates what's going on
on your desktop and automate the work
that's happening, it's just that there's
too much unexpected things that happen
and it's just hard and brittle to set it
up. Mhm. It wasn't learning ever. Mhm.
So there was like zero learning. It was
like you tell it exactly where the rules
and if you got something wrong, you you
need to go and go back and expand the
rules. Here, you have something that's
learning. Mhm. Right? So it can it can
improve and it can generalize and it can
understand the patterns and do pattern
recognition. Uh so that's the
fundamental difference between these
two.
>> 100%. Now, um there has been many
startups that have failed in the
generative AI we're going to replace RPA
with generative AI models. There's many
startups that failed actually that I
know of like pretty some high profile
ones.
It's because um the paradigm we live in
today with AI is there's still problems.
The biggest problem is that you bake a
model
and that's where it's learned everything
it needs to learn and then you freeze
it. Mhm. And then you launch it and then
maybe you give it some context but
that's it, it's frozen. So therein lies
the problem that, you know, we need we
need an AI that really can sort of
continue learning while it's using the
desktop and clicking around. So I do
think this problem is hard to to to nail
but I think Arvin is right that it's
like there's no comparison at all. It's
like rule brittle rule-based stuff
versus learning agentic system. Uh I
think it's going to nail it perfectly
but we haven't really nailed computer
use yet. Yeah. Working on it. The number
one shift is this move from
if then else statements Mhm. to a more
generative solution that figures out the
solution. Yeah. Um and so you're trading
breath for for maybe determinism.
Um that seems to be the difference and
you know, there's a lot of CIOs in the
room we've got here and they've got
budgets coming up to plan.
Uh if you were giving advice to them off
like, "Hey, based on everything I know
from my customer base,
here's one thing or two things that
you've got to figure out and and align
incentives on or it could be reliability
problem or org design. What advice would
you have for CIOs who are thinking about
their AI budgets right now?"
Well, spend more.
>> on Glean.
Spend more, yeah, put it on Glean but
the
I I think the
um
Like one thing, you know, which
which is important in AI market today is
that it's very new and there are many
players. In fact, um every every
software company is also an AI company
now. Um you can go and check their
websites.
So so the I think it's it's just hard to
actually figure out where to allocate
those budgets and
what we tell people is that I think the
winners are yet to be identified and and
so
experiment with more vendors, do short
and shorter term contracts um and and
you know, while that's easy to say, uh
it's hard to actually implement because
every product that you try has, you
know, it's a cost that you have to pay
to make it make it sort of even test it.
So so you have to also pick products
that are are easy to test. I mean, those
are the the ones that don't require you
to, you know, spend the next 6 months
trying to implement something and you
have no idea what's going to come out
after that. Like, you know, the products
of today, the products that are built
with the right AI, they should work, you
know,
very very quickly for you.
Crawl, walk, run.
We're going to take a peek into the
future. Shifting gears, you know, one of
the things that keeps investors like me
up in the nights is
a quarter trillion being spent on Nvidia
on on the semi side of things. Assuming
that is just 50% of the capex, you're
spending about half a trillion on capex
and then you've got to earn about a
trillion dollars of AI revenue for all
of this capex to be worth it.
This
and just to put this in context, the
entirety of the software industry earns
about 400 billion dollars of revenue.
This seems like a physics
problem at this point. How do you how do
you think this this plays out? You know,
you've got you've got to make about a
trillion dollars of revenue
to justify this present spend that's
already happening.
How do you think this shakes out? Uh
maybe we start with you, Arvin.
Mhm. Uh wrong person to start with but,
you know, I'm an engineer and I don't I
shouldn't really, you know, think too
much about who's spending what money.
Like, you know, we're here to build our
product and add value. So that's so so
so in some sense, you know, I'm I've not
really thought too much about this
problem. But but if you think about AI,
the you know, AI is not actually, you
know, extending software in a marginal
way.
It's a it's a it's a different product
and in fact, you know, it's actually
going to grab a lot of revenue that
actually today is in services industry
which is 25 times larger than software
industry. So there's there's a lot of
spend that is going to move. I mean,
that the spend that you see happen on AI
is actually sort of, you know, those
service dollars that are converting into
all AI or software dollars.
Um and and I think the but with with
that said, you know,
maybe maybe you have a more informed
view on this.
>> Arvin, do you think that's that's just
to build on? You said, you know, I'm an
engineer and I want to just build
something that's cool. I I do think it's
not binary, right? It's not like, "Okay,
so the physics doesn't work out so the
whole thing will collapse." No, there's
going to be things that work and so it
is a good idea to continue focusing on
the stuff that is obviously already
working. Continue expanding on that. Uh
but I think if you zoom out, I think
there's like three paradigms or three
kind of camps and I put Arvin in the
third camp. I actually put myself also
in the third camp. But let's start with
the first camp. I think the first camp
is this quest for superintelligence camp
and it's
you know, I think all the frontier lab
uh labs are doing this. Like, you know,
all three, four, or five of them,
however you want to count them.
And I think it's really still being a
lot of it comes from the scaling laws
mentality which is whoever has the most
GPUs and the most data is going to win
the quest for superintelligence which is
kind of intelligence that's like on
almost like god-like. It leads to
recursive self-improvement of the AI
which then once you have that, it can
cure cancer and solve all economical
problems and we can probably 10x GDP
over a few years period of time. So what
the hell are you talking about that
there's a physics problem? Like ill
anything any of your cost equations are
going to pale in comparison to the
economic value that this thing is going
to provide. So that's like one camp and
the way they're developing it is bigger
and bigger clusters, more and more
energy and that's how they're going
about it. Um and that's where most of
the capital is going, right?
That's not the kind of capital you're
spending or I'm spending but that's that
camp. Um and then how do they know that
they're succeeding? They're not just
like, "Oh, just trust us." They're, you
know, very smart people working on this.
So the way they're approaching it,
they're saying, "You know, we'll throw
the hardest questions we have at the
whatever AI we have now and if it nails
them and we're making really rapid
progress. So what's your problem? Like
we're like look at math Olympiad. We're
like nailing these math Olympiad
problems
physics Olympiad and programming
contest. It's like better than any human
being. So like that's what they're
they're throwing all the most
intellectually challenging
There's a second camp which are the
people that created the original
technology, the the scientists who
created the technology, got them
the computer science Nobel Prize for it,
called Turing Award and that's, uh you
know, Rich Sutton who created
reinforcement learning which, you know,
a lot of this stuff is built on. You
have Yann LeCun who's one of the three
founding fathers and many others. They
have for many years Actually, I've been
you know, I asked them for years.
They've been saying that that first camp
is not going to That's like not even the
right approach is their view.
They're like, "No, that's just like auto
regressive next token prediction. It's
just probabilistically predicting the
next token. That's not how and usually
they will say that's not how humans
learn. That's not how animals learn. You
know,
we operate in a different way. Your
brain is not that way." And one example
is that you know, even a child learns
very quickly to walk and talk and do
things with very little data compared to
you know, like certainly no child is
reading all of the internet's data four
times over before they learn to speak.
So, I don't So, that's like camp number
two. Those guys by the way, they say
it's 20 years out. Mhm. So, they're
saying, "Hey, it's a physics problem and
it's going to take 20 years to get
there."
Which to me it's like, "I don't know.
Like, leave me alone." Mhm. Uh let me do
research. Third camp, which is I think
what we are in, is I don't think we need
super intelligence. Like, you know, I
don't think we need that super
intelligence right now. Maybe they'll
get there. That's awesome if they do.
But, uh I think we have AGI. I think we
have artificial general intelligence. We
really have it. We absolutely have it.
It's like anyone who says we need to get
to AGI,
that's like it's it's a it's false
premise to start with. We already have
AGI.
Uh I came to the United States in 2009
at UC Berkeley not far away from here
and I was in a AI lab. It was called AMP
Lab. The A was for algorithms and AI,
machines and people. And these are all
AI people. And back then, the definition
of AGI we had, we already have satisfied
that. Like, Mhm.
I know the discussions we had. And I
actually went back to some of those
folks to see like, is it just me or what
was the sentiment back in 2009? And
everybody that I talked to said, "Yeah,
that's by those standards we had AGI,
but we've changed the definition now."
We have those definitions, you know,
ads. So, for 30 40 years we had a
definition of AGI. We've already hit
that.
Now, we're changing it and moving the
goalpost. But, very obviously we already
have AGI. Just use any of these LLMs and
have it do some reasoning.
And certainly it's smarter than many a
lot of friends that you have that,
right? Like, you know, let's let's not
name our coworkers or whatever, right?
Um
so, you already have AGI. Now, now we're
like haggling over exactly how smart is
it. You know, do you have a friend
that's smarter or not? Uh so, if we
already have AGI, we just need to make
it useful inside the enterprise. We need
to just expand that 5% to be 10% 20%
30%. So, that's why I think Arvind's
answer is actually a good answer. Like,
we have the AGI we need. Let us just
focus on solving the actual problems
inside the organizations. And I think we
can already that's that's enough to
automate a lot of the tasks and get huge
economic value out of it. We don't
actually need super intelligence for
that. That's good idea. If the super
intelligence guys nail it, amazing. Then
we've cured cancer. Um if they don't,
hopefully the second camp comes up with
a new thing in the next 20 years. That's
also awesome. We already have whatever
we need. So, Yeah. Yeah. Let us just do
our engineering. Right. Yeah. Yeah.
That's really good framing.
And the way this manifests in the in the
you know, in the world is there's a data
layer. There's the intelligence layer,
which is where camp one is presumably
producing a lot of great models. And
then there's the software layer where
the users engage with.
Where do you think value accrue if you
were to design 100 units of value across
these three layers? The data layer, the
intelligence layer, and the software or
the application layer.
Where do you think value accrues
in the next 5 years?
All right. This is a This is a tough
question. I mean, I [clears throat]
think the all all those three layers
actually are very fundamental. Yeah. I
thought you were going to add a few more
which are not
You didn't.
Yeah, cuz I think I I feel like the like
as as Ali was saying that the models are
going to be available to all of us. You
know, they are going to be commodity.
It's going to hard to sort of
see that it the more spend goes to them
versus you know, these layers on top. Um
the but how do you how do you say like
you know, I it's hard to sort of come up
with you know, where the most value will
be.
Um
and And I also don't know if if actually
changes from today's technology
architecture where again like you know,
you think about in a pre-AI world,
any any sort of like you know,
enterprise
you know, you know, application and data
systems, you know, you have you have
data systems. You you do have I guess
you don't have enough of that
intelligent layer today and then you
have the application layer. So, so I so
I so I I guess you know, some some
dollars will shift into it. And then we
do think that the intelligence layer is
actually going to be pretty thick one.
Maybe you know, it's it'll capture half
of the enterprise value.
Anything to add, Ali? Uh yeah, no. I I I
think that you know, uh yeah, there are
more layers in the stack depending on
how you want to do it. But, um
I think as I said, the the LLMs is a
commodity as Arvind said. You can get
them. Like, you know, but anyway, that's
not That doesn't mean those companies
are not going to be valuable. They can
be very I mean, TSMC is very valuable.
But, um I'm saying they're going to be
kind of like these fab-like companies.
But, uh but they're interchangeable and
we've never seen something like that
ever. I have not during all these People
just switch LLMs
like in one day.
That's not the case with your you know,
your iPhone versus Android or your
Windows versus your Mac or your anything
versus anything. Like, you know,
uh you know, Google Sheets versus Excel
is like huge religious battle inside our
company.
Uh but but LLMs is like you know,
because um it's a commodity as I said.
It just speaks English or any language
you like and you can and it gives you
different answers every time. Might as
well just try the cheaper one, the
cheaper commodity or the slightly
smarter commodity. You can't even really
tell the difference, can you?
Um so, then what is special is the data
that you have. Again, if your company
has data that it has actually collected
that your competitors do not have. Like,
Glean is amazing. But, if you remove all
the data from Glean, it's there's no use
to it, right? So, it's all about the
data that you have. Um and can you
secure the data also?
Uh so, if we're going to have agents
running around accessing this data,
like, "Oh, that's his HR data. Oh,
here's the provost's salary information.
Oops, I blurted out to all of you."
Like, you know, like that's you know, so
how do you lock it down? Uh how do you
make sure that um
the [clears throat] there's governance?
There's you know, there's also a lot of
worry around can What if it's using a
Chinese model? What if it's accessing
this information? What if it's sharing
this information with a competitor? What
if it's interacting? So, the governance
security layer is going to be super
super important. Uh but I do think most
of the value will accrue to the apps.
Yeah. So, it's kind of And I think
that's common sense. It just I just
don't know which apps. Yeah. Uh I do
think Glean is amazing. I don't think
it's
Do you think of it as an app or
I don't know. But,
Now, we see us as both app and a
platform. Yeah. Yes. So, I think it's a
let's call it an app platform. I do
think it's amazing because it has the
potential to automate
uh so much of the overhead inside of an
organization. Like, if you think about
why do organizations have hundreds of
thousands of employees, you know, some
organizations or 50,000 20,000. A lot of
it is the coordination overhead of like
you know, so many people have to
communicate with each other. Hey, what
happened? What did you exactly mean by
this? Let's do a meeting where you
explain to me. I ask some questions.
Let's Oh, let's invite these other guys
also and then write it down and then
just The just the coordination overhead
of organizations is massive. Right? It's
like this n squared problem that you
know, everybody needs to communicate
with everybody and they're communicating
inside their siloed org chart. But, how
do we get it across? So, this like you
know, through docs and Excel sheets and
PowerPoints and meetings is how we like
move companies and organizations
forward. So much of that can be
augmented and be made more efficient
with Glean. So, that's why I think Glean
is amazing.
Um but this is kind of like 2000. Yeah.
And you ask what are the killer apps on
the internet. By the way, back then we
thought it's like Cisco routers, you
know, Yeah. portals maybe with thousands
of links on them. Actually, I was like
in I just started college and
we knew that the future of internet
would be portals, which are these web
pages with a hundred links on it and you
just click click on the right link. This
is before Google search. But, the future
of internet actually didn't look that
way. Ended up being you know, things
like Facebook for friends and things
like Airbnb for rentals and Uber for
your cab industry
and you know,
Twitter and so on. So, those became
great companies. So, I don't know what
those are for the future. Uh they will
pop up. Yeah. And they will be extremely
valuable. But, okay. So, does that mean
that Databricks and Glean
then basically will die and there'll be
a new set of companies? No, back then
there was actually an amazon.com already
in '98. There was already a Google
actually existed already in '98 and so
know, only a $300 company or something
like that, right? So, uh so, it's not
binary. We'll see what happens. I but I
do think there's going to be really a
lot of value will go to the future Yeah.
you know, apps that will emerge.
Speaking Let's double click into that.
Yeah. The $300 companies of today at
that layer, software apps, Salesforce,
ServiceNow.
A lot of talk about software is being
dead. Um Satya calls them the crud apps.
What is the future of this layer that
today is called software that seems to
be heading towards becoming a database?
Um and what do you see the the the the
value accrue to to to those to these
this part of the layer?
Maybe start with you, Arvind.
Yeah, I I I think that's a
oversimplification.
Um like for example, even to say that
Salesforce is
you know, it's just a database.
Um
you know, it's a it's a full sort of
ecosystem of
workflows
and other applications, you know, that
are sort of built on top of that
infrastructure. So, um
So, I sort of like you know, I haven't
really understood this concept of that
you know, you have this
um like a you know, database you know,
where all your enterprise data is and
then um and then people can just go and
create dynamic UI experiences
uh on their own on top of that data. On
it like you know, every business can for
example, just create all the UI by
themselves on this. I don't I don't
think you know, it's going to be
uh happening like that because yes, you
know, AI makes it easy
uh for you to build um you can have a
database and you can build you can just
talk to AI and create a UI and
experience that that
that is you know exactly what you want
it to be.
But most times you actually won't know
what you want. Like you know, I think a
lot of like you know good thing about
software companies is that they actually
think about
how to actually take that data but then
present it in a way let you know make
people interact with it or modify it in
a way which sort of is natural and which
you know drives you know like more
productivity from a human. So so I think
ultimately like a software is an
end-to-end stack in my opinion and all
of these companies, you know, I don't
think they're going away. I don't think
you know they're going to relegated to
becoming a database. Humans you know
over the last 20 years we got addicted
to these screens. We scrunched over the
screens and we would input this
information with their with their keys
with the drop down and hey I met Arvin
today and this is what I learned. It
should really be hey chat met with Arvin
this is what I learned remind me two
days to catch up with him. That that
will happen. I mean that I think it's
going to happen. Yeah, that will happen
in the next couple years and even Glean
you'll you won't be able to want to type
you want to talk to it. But I think the
big thing is data entry. Mhm. How does
the data appear in that database?
>> Mhm.
And that's today
uh not completely automated. So you know
just just for like
uh I I think a company that would be
well positioned to do that would
actually kind of be Zoom.
You know a lot of people don't think
about it that way. But Zoom is really
should be the the the perfect data entry
uh application right? Cuz that's where
you're having all the conversations and
that's where all the information's
coming out. And if they could you know
if it could work with Glean and get
extract the most important information
Yeah. store it all not in like a
structured day table but like store that
information in system of record. Mhm. If
you had that that would be the full
disruption of the SaaS We have
That's that's actually is is is one of
the most common agents these days you
know with Glean which is you take these
meeting recordings you figure out like
you know what you talk to the customer
uh what were the action items and then
the agent goes updates the notes in
Salesforce with that like these these
kind of things are happening already
yeah. Meeting meetings is yeah is uh
you know like we in in Glean we have
this uh
um
policy [clears throat] where we record
every single meeting internal meeting
external meeting if our customers allow
uh cuz there's so much so much
information you know in there. I uh I
joined a meeting last week it was four
humans and uh six AI note takers. Yeah.
I heard about I think yesterday we were
talking about 17 note takers in one of
the you know discussions. This this it
felt like the first you know it's like
the first scene of a movie where where
the AI takes over. Clearly there's a lot
of sprawl. There's there's like almost
too many tools and and consolidation
coming
>> [snorts]
>> at some point. But uh but maybe your
guys's personal workflow you know you
guys are CEOs in the age of AI a lot of
CIOs in the room they've got more jobs
than time on their hands. How are you
using AI for both your personal self
and how are you driving your
organizations they're both large
organizations to to adopt AI and and
benefit from it?
Um maybe give us a glimpse of your
leadership in in the age of AI. Maybe
Ali we start with you this time. Yeah I
mean we have agents for all kind of
stuff that we use you know everything
from you know we have agents that are
really good at understanding our
customers. We have an agent Raffi's that
Raffi's is the name which Raffi. Yeah if
I want to understand anything about any
like you know tell me best customer
story on this. Like you know I told you
about RBC Royal Bank Canada but I can
just ask it I need a use case I'm going
to get on stage I'm going to talk about
finance sector. Give me a use case that
has these it'll like just find you all
the information collected. So it's
really really helpful for me for these
kind of things like when I get on stage
like this.
Uh but also customer if you go into a
customer meeting
uh you know I want to tell customer X
about their biggest competitor Y how
they're using Databricks. Now maybe Y is
not a competitor is not using Databricks
so then I shouldn't use I should use Z
which actually is using Databricks.
Maybe that's like the number two
competitor. How do I get this
information super quickly? All of those
are prepared at Databricks. So on the
go-to-market side a lot of this is being
completely automated and we're using
this.
The marketing stack I already mentioned
is heavily automated already like the a
lot of the tasks that happening in
marketing
so we're seeing that stack
that happening. Um then there's
engineering that's like a whole big
thing like you know that's how we sort
of
and I think there's a whole change
management and how to do it right.
You know initial attempts at automate a
lot of the software engineering at
Databricks kind of failed even there's
nothing wrong with the AI. The problem
is the humans and how we were organized
but that's you know so those are like
the two big orgs Databricks is a big you
know 6,000 person go-to-market org and
3-4,000 person R&D org and then there's
some back office stuff. Those two
already we're seeing heavy automation
using agents for all kind of the task.
Then there's back office so that's
finance and these functions. Finance is
all on Databricks and it's all all the
forecasting all the sort of it's all
moved to machine learning based. But it
took them a long time cuz they had their
Excel models and they're very proud of
them and didn't want to you know but uh
um again there's a change management
there. We actually had external data
science team build the AI models
and then eventually they became good
enough and now
finance has taken those over and like
you know
uh finance has kind of moved from Excel
to Python
largely at Databricks. But it was a
journey cuz you know most of us speak
speak Excel. Similar thing is now
happening to HR
and other departments as well but I
think they're like you know I think in
general HR departments are like
you know even like they're not the
closest to doing this kind of analytical
work with you know Excel and so on. Uh
so maybe that's not quite as far along
but yes it's we're seeing it everywhere.
Yeah.
Anything to add Arvin? Same for us
anything I can share some of my own
personal use
with with it like so I one of our agents
is daily prep agent which I really love
because you know every morning um it
tells me like you know what my day is
going to be what I need to read what I
need to prepare. Like most of the
meetings you know I will have not have
context it actually brings you know like
the plan for those meetings for me. So
that's that's one of my favorite
agents you know that helps me feel more
confident like you know for like how I'm
going to do my meetings in the day.
Um the other one
uh which I which I shared yesterday also
um
the like you know I I've changed my
instinct and I think you know changing
changing instincts you know take take
take take a long time um and you know
when when you're the CEO like you're the
boss and everybody listens to you and
you can just say [snorts] like you know
whenever you have you know a small
question curiously just go and ask
somebody and they're going to like you
know uh put 30 people on the task
actually get that get that answer for me
and this is You're going to have a prep
meeting before the prep meeting before
the meeting.
>> so so all of that so so that so that's
sort of like you know and and so but
it's sort of like for me it was easy. I
just get to ask somebody and and that
you know I changed that because I knew I
was actually causing like you know a lot
of
the the that was very expensive. So the
so today like you know my instinct is to
like whenever I have curiosity whenever
I have questions when I need to do
data analysis when I need to write
something you know my my letter to the
company every month all of those things
you know like fundamentally I use you
know AI of course you know Glean in this
case but to actually help me
do my do my tasks. Yeah.
>> More more I I think the
you have to
you you have to sort of have that
um belief. A lot of people won't do it.
You have you have to have that belief
that AI is a good collaborator. It's not
going to do the work for you but if you
use it you're going to actually produce
better output eventually. Even if you
don't save time you know for the first
you know first few months but you're
actually going to improve the quality of
your output.
Fascinating. Well
this brings me to my favorite part of
this conversation which is rapid fire.
Short answers are fine long answers are
welcome.
Um
Start with the 12 months from now.
Are the big AI companies that we know of
today
up or down? We'll start with OpenAI 12
months from now stocks up or down?
Ali and then Arvin.
Up.
And I'll say revenue will be up. I don't
really understand how stocks work.
>> [laughter]
>> Anthropic.
Ali or Arvin.
Up same. Okay.
Arvin Let me let me talk can I get Yes
[clears throat] of course. Because
ChatGPT is going to continue growing and
it's on fire and it's what everybody
uses.
Uh so is Gemini by the way. And then
Anthropic because more and more you know
coding we've only like eaten into a
small portion of that market it's just
started so.
Is AI in a bubble yes or no?
There is an AI bubble. Uh like saying
like okay so then Glean is also in the
bubble everybody's in the bubble. No I
would I would say there is a bubble. I I
would say those three camps. Yeah. There
is a super intelligence quest camp.
>> Mhm. I would be very worried there.
There's a second the researchers doing
the you know that's definitely not in a
bubble they're like They're sober. Yeah
they're they're super sober nobody cares
about them.
And then there's [laughter]
right? And they're probably the ones
that are right unfortunately. And then
there's the third camp which is us
trying to make this valuable. We're not
in a bubble in a sense that we're not
spending huge amounts of capital on what
we are doing.
We're just trying to get actual economic
value inside of this organization. So I
I don't think it's binary but there is a
bubble. I mean there are startups with
zero revenue worth you know 10 20 30
billion.
That's a bubble.
Yeah.
Same I mean I think the
uh there are quite a few companies where
there's a lot of optimism and valuations
which are well ahead of the business
that those companies have. In like I
guess you can say like you know compared
to non-AI companies like of course AI
companies do have
higher higher higher multiples and um
but I think it you know that sort of
comes from that you know that
there's a good reason for it you know
cuz you know these are AI companies are
going to grow
more than non-AI companies for sure.
Yeah.
My favorite game at Ultimately we ask
our CEOs is a long short game is if you
were to pick a company a product, an
idea that you're long, that you think is
going to be a bigger deal than it is
today, what is that? And then short,
which is, you know, there's more sizzle
than there's steak, more more hype than
reality.
Pick a long, something that you're
really optimistic on. Same order. Ali
and then Arvind.
Mhm. [snorts]
I am very long on agents.
You know, I think I'm very long on
speech. Speech as an interaction. Like I
think keyboards are kind of basically
going to disappear completely. We
haven't actually nailed speech. I know I
know it feels like we have, but we
haven't cuz you're still using your
keyboard. So as long as you're using a
keyboard, we haven't nailed speech. But
I think we're this close to completely
eliminating
keyboards. So I think that's that's a
big one.
What's What would I say? It's like, you
know, I do think coding is a little bit
over hyped. I don't know if I would
short it. It's I mean, I think it's
still the future. So I think that's
that's one of them. I think automating
like customer service and support is a
little bit over hyped. So, you know, I
basically I think the things that the
industry thinks are like amazing and
we've made great progress. We probably
haven't done as progress on it. And then
a lot of the other things that are being
ignored, you know, we're going to have
breakthroughs in those. So.
Fascinating. Yeah.
Yeah, and for for me, I think
the products that are
going to change the paradigm
where instead of you building a product
and you know, expecting people to come
to you,
if you understand
your user, your customer um
very deeply and actually bring the AI to
them. That's the category that I'm
excited about. I want I want I want to
see more proactive proactive AI products
coming coming to the market next year.
Yeah. That that's That's That is what is
going to actually take it from a
5% of the users being power users to
100%. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Your favorite AI tool that you use in
your lives.
I think Glean is awesome. I mean, if
that was not clear.
Let's go.
So he uses it all the time. I actually a
lot of the questions I would ask from
the team. The The thing you said you
changed, I I I first ask Glean and then
see, you know, if it nails it or not.
Then if it doesn't, then I'll
spin up a 30-person team to go spend
[laughter] a week and have three
meetings and all that to get, you know,
the explanation of some simple concept
for me. But usually Glean nails it.
Yeah.
Well, for for me, I'm excited about note
takers.
I've I've used Grain and Otter.ai myself
and Fathom and a few others. But note
taking is actually fascinating. I mean,
I think the I I feel like, you know, if
you if you take those notes and then if
you utilize it the right way, like for
example, what Ali was saying, like, you
know, that becomes the source of what
then actually creates knowledge, saves
data in your systems. That's going to
change, you know, how companies work.
Yeah. You know, in closing, I'd love to
get your vision for your companies.
We'll start with Ali's favorite tool,
Glean.
Congrats, you just announced crossing a
big milestone, $200 million in revenue
run rate.
You've You're signing big deals, $10
million deals. You've got super users,
I'm seeing you're seeing casual users.
Paint us the vision for for Glean from
here to a billion in revenue. I think
we're still doing annual planning, which
also some, you know, AI companies are
telling me that's that's old school. But
but but we're doing it regardless. We're
doing it. That's just because they're
early startups. Like Did you Did you do
annual planning when you started Glean?
No. No. So. So, the But but I think for
us
um
the the thing that I'm most excited
about again is
So we think a lot about AI literacy and
how do you get everybody
along on this journey? And we're not
seeing it right now. Like Glean is a
heavily used product, but but still
there's there's a big variance between
the top users and and and and the ones,
you know, at the bottom.
And and that's what we want to change.
So for the future for us is we want to
be We want Glean to be this um very
personal companion for every person in
every company in the world. um This This
companion with which, you know, is is is
you know, you have a very confidential
relationship with this companion in the
sense that whatever you ask this
companion, you know, whatever
communication you have with them, um you
know, it's it's fully privileged. Nobody
else gets to see it. But this companion
knows everything about you and your work
life. It knows your day, it knows your
week. It knows who are you going to
meet.
Um
you know, in the day-to-day, it knows
your weekly goals. It knows what you
know, what things you're not good at or
what your career ambitions are. And with
all of that, you know, uh this this
personal companion is um
is sort of helping you now with your
work. Um it you know, hopefully takes
majority of your tasks automatically. Um
what you know, works on them before you
ask it to work on them. And and that's
So that's sort of the vision that we're
you know, taking our product to. We have
most of the you know, foundation for
this in place already. Um Today you have
to come to Glean to get most of that
work done. In the future, we want Glean
to actually come to you and do that
work.
Fascinating. Well, we can keep going for
a bit, but I'm being called on time.
Thank you so much for chopping it up
with us. You got a lot of alpha, a lot
of insights here. Really appreciate it.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
All right, gentlemen. Thank you so much.